and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show i'm your host
sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com
and if you haven't yet check out my
weekly email what i'm sharing actual
website and marketing tips useful
podcasts free goodies and much much more
so you can kick off your week with a
bang why not give it a shot over at
business growth dot email
joining me today i've got stefan heder
brandt
and he is the co-founder of cmo over at
dream data stefan a warm welcome to the
show sir how's it going
thank you so much sam uh it's going
pretty good it's uh summertimes are
approaching here in copenhagen but uh
looking forward to joining your show fun
in the sun fun on the marketing podcast
could life be any better sure
anyway we're going to be chatting all
things
marketing and linking that marketing
activity to revenue so let's dive
straight in we don't like to mess around
on this podcast why is it so important
stefan to link marketing activity to
revenue to cash in the bank
i think uh
i think at least this is the way i think
about marketing is that you do marketing
to produce
pipeline and to produce revenue for the
company you work at because if you're
not doing these things
then you're wasting your company's money
and the company's time and your own time
because otherwise you know why
why come to work at all and
the reason why we want to be doing this
particularly now is that
you know in these times where there's
economic turmoil on the horizon you know
the cfo he's going to be sitting and
counting his
peanuts or whatever he's counting and
saying
uh where can i cut some spent where can
i cut some cost
and the first place he's going to be
looking at is kind of oh where's all
that marketing cost going uh there's the
active spend but there's also the salary
are we actually getting anything out of
spending all these money on on
advertising and
that's if you don't have that proof of
how your activities are connected to to
revenue you're probably going to be the
first place that he's going to be be
thinking about
yeah yeah yeah
it makes sense right but
i thought marketers jobs was to generate
leads not produce revenue i thought that
was the sales team
[Laughter]
[Music]
depends a little bit about which school
you come from i think uh for me
i've just seen
when it kind of
marketing connected for me in my career
was when i started to be able to have
like really rock solid proof that our
activities were actually producing
revenue like in the you know when you're
a junior marketer you just celebrate
that you every time you can get you know
make one number go up whether that's
leads or
you know organic search rankings or
stuff like that uh yeah that's good but
you find out as you get more experience
that what counts is revenue and not
not just you know
proxies of entity metrics related to to
to revenue so
it you know it gets you promoted it
helps you not get fired it helps your
company succeed that that's why i think
you should connect revenue to or connect
marketing activities to revenue
yeah yeah yeah
exactly right i mean if you can show
profitable revenue as a business you're
not going to go too far wrong as a
marketer unless leadership's got mental
yeah going a bit off topic you mentioned
and this this is something i see all the
time with our business but
for some reason whenever hits the
fan whenever things are going bad in
business why is it that companies always
think we've got to cut marketing because
you and i as both working marketing
business know that yeah terrible idea
because if you stop marketing there's
going to be no inbound coming in no
brand position no brand awareness and
everything's going to go
your sales team's going to have a
nightmare because they're going to have
to do cold outbound all day um
everyone's life's gonna be hard work but
why is that the natural instinct do you
think for businesses that when things
are rough when cash flows tight when
their commonly takes a downturn why is
it always cut marketing
i think it's because uh
people are thinking a bit too
siloed or singular around how revenue is
produced
uh you know it's the salespeople who
does get the contract signed and it's
extremely valuable the work that sales
people do
but at least particularly in b2b where
i've always been working
deals doesn't come out of nowhere it
takes a lot of time it takes a lot of
touches
it's a long journey we just put out some
benchmarks ourselves that said that the
average
you know customer journey amongst our
customers is 192 days and has 32
sessions in it
out of those touches the
touches that gets the deal signed are
the sales touches but you know those
eighty percent leading up to that deal
coming was actually
market uh quite often marketing touches
right but you don't see that see it as
tangible because it's the sale of people
who bring in their signed contract but
what you might risk doing by let's say
cutting the marketing spin is you kind
of view it kind of so
what's it called you're kind of breaking
the
what's it called uh
you're kind of shooting yourself in the
foot basically because the seeds the
seeds you're planting today are to be
harvested in q3 and q4 and if you stop
planting seeds then there's no no
material for the sales people to work
with
so what we're saying basically is the
sales people are taking all the credit
for marketing's hard work oh don't be
the typical uh
banter between sales and marketing i
don't i actually don't see it that way
i typically go around saying that the
quickest way for marketers to improve
their return on ad spend is to make best
friends with the sales people
because as you say like if you've
collected let's say you've collected a
bunch of great leads
if the sales people
don't pick them up if they don't call
them write them or anything like that
you're just gonna have a marketing cost
without any revenue collected connected
to it so you need to be best buddies
with the sales people go in and ask them
what types of leads do you like to work
with which converts faster or better is
then yet like is there anything you
consistently hear in the sales dialogue
that you don't feel that we've covered
uh you know let's head down to the pub
have a beer and try to make friends
sounds perfect to me
can't be a beer and a bit of marketing
talk a bit business talk sounds perfect
cool well yeah i mean that makes sense
right because it's it's only what you
see on the front end i mean if you're
seeing contracts signed if you're seeing
deals go over the line you're thinking
well the sales people are doing a great
job and sometimes it's very easy to
forget the things that go on in the
background whether that's marketing
research actual implementation whether
that's working on ads working on demand
generation working on resources like
podcast blogs or doing seo work
that kind of stuff kind of ticks away
and you only really think about the
deals that go over the line so it's like
you say very easily forgotten
but once it is taken away you certainly
see the impact yeah i think and then i
think us as marketers at least i am a
marketer you're a marketer but also the
listeners
you should take responsibility for these
things to be able to explain your
organization
we are doing these things in marketing
and we are doing those things because we
believe a b c d is going to equal
e or f or whatever it is you need to
explain the ceo why are we doing you
need to explain to the cfo why is this a
meaningful activity
and yeah i think it's also a it's a fair
demand that for the we are requiring to
budget typically a lot of money to you
know to make a make an impact
and we need to be able to justify why
are we demanding this amount of money
and if you're not able to justify this
then like how can you then expect to be
given a large budget
for sure and we can talk about that
shortly when we when we talk about the
measurement and attribution in a bit of
finer detail but
before we do what are some of the key
things let's say in a b2b organization
that really should be measured when it
comes to marketing activity
good question sam i think it's uh
there's
marketing that is easy to measure and
then there's marketing that is harder to
measure and both things can be very very
valuable to do both of them
there's disciplines where you should
really try to enforce
measurement
particularly in the
you know the performance end of the
marketing spectrum where you do have
your clicks you do have your utms your
referral links etc where you can
actually
very tangibly show that we did these
activities so we bought these clicks or
ads people arrived to our website and we
produced revenue in those disciplines
where it's very easy to measure your
impact because you have the high demands
for quantifiable metrics about how stuff
works
then there's other activities
that are harder to measure that might
still be relevant to do for example we
do a lot of
what we define as social selling on
linkedin which means basically
connecting with our ideal customer
profiles and then posting quality
content in front of them
nine out of ten times we will not be
putting any links into those posts so
it's hard to directly attribute
[Music]
you know outcomes from it
but it makes sense for us to do
so
you know if we can continue to connect
with the right people if we can produce
quality content and you can see people
are liking it and engaging with it then
it must make sense to to spend time on
and instead of you having like the
tangible click to show to your
colleagues then
you might want to be showing them that
look at this i like vp marketing at this
really icp company just reshared our
benchmarks or
you know
it's more like taking that screenshot of
every time there's a you know a
meaningful activity for our brand i
think you should be doing and
you should just realize that
this is an activity that's hard to
measure so we have to
battle a little bit for actually proving
that it's worth the time
because you have if you have no proof at
all that it's meaningful then you're
probably going to be asked to stop
stop doing that activity
so i think that's that's the way i
way are thinking about it
okay all right yes we've listed a couple
different angles there so like you say
if you're doing if you're perhaps
running paid advertisement then you can
use things like utm codes you can use
google analytics or similar tools to
track your website traffic you can track
the different source types so if they've
come through a certain
paid ad on seo maybe they've come
through article or they've come to a
certain page
you can then track things like you say
time session times on your website the
conversion rate
whether they're converting into a
filling out a form booking time on a
calendar with a sales rep or clicking
your phone number to give you a call so
that all those things can be measured
but then
like you say when it gets difficult is
when you're doing things like posting on
social media where that's linkedin
creating content
someone follows you follows your content
for a long time and eventually goes to
the website as we know the website's
going to show that as a conversion from
wherever their last touch was whether
that's yeah directly
that's when it all gets a bit tricky
so as you think you should always ask
yourself is it the right people that we
are communicating to right now and do
they get a quality piece of content in
front of them
if those two things are ticked off i
think it's uh
i think you're doing the right thing
essentially and then it's gonna some
some of the things are gonna be
measurable and other stuff
is a bit harder to measure
and this this is where i think it's your
responsibility to communicate
to the organization why it's still
meaningful to do it even though it can
be a little bit hard to to attribute to
these things
yeah yeah yeah so
in terms of working with management
teams
let's say perhaps you're a marketer and
you've got to report to the c-suite how
do you
recommend that
people get buy-in for doing activities i
mean it's probably quite it's probably a
lot easier to get buying on paid
advertisement where you can
let's say it's google search ads google
adwords where you're literally paying x
budget people click through the ads and
you can see how yeah pretty much how
many people are converting into leads or
opportunities
whereas when you're doing things a lot
less measurable like you say posting on
linkedin perhaps daily content around
your industry giving tips insights how
to's um or maybe other things that can't
be tracked maybe you're doing like
linkedin advertisement but not for
direct leads you're doing it to raise
awareness you're sending people to case
studies to articles
to build a brand rather than direct
leads how do you
kind of convince
management c-suite that this is actually
a smart idea and this long term is gonna
help the company of revenue
um
it's it's a challenge and i think it's
something that takes uh
it takes time you know i think marketing
is also a meritocracy a little bit that
you
yeah as you start a role you start doing
some stuff and you start proving that
you're able to to make things work and
as you make things work you know you can
come back and ask for more
i think uh first of all
what you want to be doing is like
if you don't doubt that whether
something works or is not working
you need to be proactive about it and
say listen i tried this thing out
yeah and
and i i simply cannot establish any
proof that it's working so i had a
hypothesis i tested it out and it didn't
work
a lot of people
like
what used to be popular to be for a
couple of years back was be to be a
growth hacker
and something that actually was i what i
liked about the
you can say that craft was that
they actually were proponents of like a
very structured approach to how you do
experiments so
in for any given period you would enter
whether that's a two-week sprint or a
month sprint or something like that you
would arrive to this stage where you've
written down all the ideas you have
you've written you've scored them from
easy to hard to do big business impact
small business impact gut feeling no god
feeling
and then you rational you pick the ideas
you believe
to be the winners of those ideas that
you have but then you run a quick test
cycle whether that's like a 14 month
trial period or like a month's trial
period and as soon as that time period
is over you do your evaluation
do we feel that this is moving towards
the right thing so it's not moving too
bro towards where we want to go
and if you have that systematic approach
that you can share with your
organization that
look and also this is a way to avoid
your ceo coming in hey i was at this
conference and i had this idea let's
let's shift strategy completely yeah
then always like have a structured
approach to what are the activities that
we're gonna carry out
which one of them do we think is the
easiest and most impactful yeah then go
try them out and then also return to the
organization with
how did we see this actually unfold
yeah and then you'll start a new period
of ideas list the ideas again
so i think destruct it's about building
trust through execution
yeah i love the idea of marketing
experiments and
i think it's something that in my
experience companies don't do enough of
because most
b2b businesses are working with massive
marketing budgets but they're just
sticking to the same kind of platforms
that they know
and that work to give them rather steady
results
because we have kind of smaller
organization a bit more agile we've got
the flexibility where i can just say one
day right i'm going to try this channel
for a month three months let's see how
it goes if we make some revenue out of
it great if not we've lost a few grand
no worries we don't do it again we learn
from it we move on to try on the next
channel but
and larger scale organizations it's so
much harder to spin those cogs get
approval and kick those things into yes
right
i think that's the like i think that's
one of the things that has helped me
improve the most as the market has been
to like have a like a experimentation
frame like mindset
yeah come up with ideas score them test
them evaluate them and do it over again
so there's nothing that is half that is
forever it's always a continuous test of
let's try this let's see how it works
and let's repeat it if it works
and then i think
it's important to also have this split
of your kind of your
your diesel engines that you know are
always working and you can just you know
slowly put a little bit more money into
it but then you also need a lot of small
experiments because
at some point you're going to have
exhausted the like that big engine you
cannot an example can be that there's
not more search traffic to acquire on
this term you've acquired all the
traffic that is out there on this thing
so you need other kind of small engines
where you test other stuff
so they can kind of be part of your
pillars of the future so like
whether that's like 70 percent the solid
stuff and then
20 pretty solid and 10 percent
experiment you need to figure that out
in your organization but
you need to constantly be experimenting
but do not put all your eggs into the
experimentation pocket because then your
sales people can run out of leads yeah
and i've been i've been there so don't
do that keep the solid stuff and then
experiment with smaller experiments
yeah yeah we've learned the hard way in
the past too so yeah
got to be a little bit sensible whether
that's for sure
so
let's try and get a bit actionable and
go back to what we were talking about
earlier so perhaps i'll give you a
scenario stephan perhaps we're yeah
let's lower b2b company maybe we're
selling some kind of software and
perhaps
up to now we've scaled pretty well in
terms of monthly revenue just relying on
let's say word of mouth referrals
now we want to ramp up marketing we want
to ramp up advertising
but we're not really sure what to do
perhaps our
ceo has kind of been to a few
conferences like you say i've seen a few
webinars and thinks they should ramp
load the money in google ads and
linkedin ads
um yeah mark just maybe want to do a few
more experiments want to get the team
social selling
as well as doing like demand gen with
linkedin ads and
perhaps yeah perhaps something else how
do
how do they stay set up from scratch so
they can basically say look this is a
system whereby we're gonna
market it we can actually attribute and
measure everything we can within our
realm starting from scratch
and we're also gonna kind of test other
things so we can actually report i don't
know monthly bi-monthly whatever you
want to do to actually show yeah the
c-suite this is what we're doing this is
how well it's going and these are like
positive signals that were actually kind
of on the right tracks
yeah i think you almost wrapped it up
the same like
for every activity you do you need to
kind of define what the success look
like for this activity you know
get a new bdr into the company and he
needs to book 10 meetings a month then
we know that's working and i think that
that kind of thinking you can apply to
all sorts of marketing experiments what
is it we're doing
what defines success and how do we
ensure that we can actually measure this
and like in this online world for
example it will quite typically be that
your website is your
is your kind of your fishing boat
meaning that
all the traffic is actually coming
through your website so you need to make
sure that your website is wired uh to
actually be able to track
activities and then referrals etc
you know and the simplest of tools to
install would be to oh it used to be
google analytics but now there's ga4 and
now it's not that true anymore but you
need to make sure that when you put
stuff
into your website they can actually
understand and watch whether uh
it converts whether it actually produces
the business results that you're hoping
for so i would say as i said before
start writing your experiments down
score them on the quality level that you
feel they're at but also establish a
measurement system that you can then
show to the rest of the organization
we tried these things this is what we
observed
we hit above or below the target so we
think we should either stop or we should
do more of
this thing
yeah yeah
got it so yeah making sure you're
measuring as much as you can and then
otherwise yeah
and i think actually i think a problem
for some marketers are that they can be
slaves of their
of creativity so they kind of
continue to search for the new thing
whereas
quite often it's a lot better just to
keep refining what are we doing already
and you know
if if it's possible to put
k into an advertising campaign that is
already working that is by far the
easiest thing you can do rather than you
know you have to reinvent the wheel
coming up with a completely new idea and
then try to see how that works so
you know if you find found oil just to
keep trailing there instead of trying to
come up with that with the next idea so
i think that would also be to you know
if the ceo comes with this a new idea
you'd have to say like look we have this
thing it's working we can prove that
it's working are you sure you want to
completely stop what is working
in a trade-off for doing something
completely new
and if the ceo still wants to do that
maybe you should find another place to
work
well it's almost common sense right it's
like
if for example google ads is driving a
good amount of good amount of qualified
leads that's producing a steady amount
of revenue
and eventually you're going to hit the
diminishing returns of how much you can
cap because there's only so much search
for certain keywords certain phrases
around your target market your offer
then it makes sense to eventually
experiment with other channels whether
it's social whether it's outbound
whether that's something else
so you should see what works
yeah whether it's organic search like
you say video podcast whatever you want
to do
to see see what results that brings over
time set a firm timeline and see how it
goes um
just to just to take the other side of
the argument how do you what are your
thoughts when we've got people like
chris wolf and the team at refine labs
of course almost going against the the
model of trying to attribute things um
and going again kind of with dark social
which is more geared towards
a little bit of what we touched on in
terms of when content is perhaps shared
in things that can't be tracked be it
slack channels skype internal messaging
systems and such yeah
how what's what's their response for
that
no i think i'm i'm very 100 sure that
for all the clients that they have
they're also being asked to defend why
are we spending this money that we're
spending and i think
to a large degree i think it's just a
narrative that they've found strikes
engagement because
the fact is that you cannot walk into
any like meetings with any bosses and
not show any proof that stuff is working
and
but i've won out where i do think that
they have really
learned me something has been on the
narrative of demand
capture versus demand generation
and
for me
i used to think everything should be
measurable i've now softened up a lot
about that because you
you exhaust the bottom funnel quite fast
and then you actually you need to move
up and then you need to create some
demand you need to know get in front of
the right people with the right
messaging and then they move down your
funnel like most people are not out
buying stuff
all the time they have like certain
periods or contract periods that need to
be
exceeded before they're ready to buy a
new piece of software again
and then
and that's why i also like said
initially there's stuff that is harder
to measure that is still super uh
valuable to do stuff like
social selling
that creates you know
we hear like in every second demo call
we do
that people would mention oh i followed
you on linkedin etc
but that is hard for us to prove
it's not impossible to prove both
through qualitative methods but it does
also leave traces when we do do the
occasional link out of linkedin people
do come to our website and i think any
if you're in doubt where the stuff works
it's because it doesn't because even the
branding exercises the dimension
exercises will still leave a very
significant proof
if it's working well
yeah yeah yeah and some of it from my
experience anyway stefan i don't know if
you'll agree but some of it just comes
down to kind of listening into sales
calls or if you're conducting the sales
calls yourself then actually when you're
talking to prospects and you can do this
on your inquiry forms as well which has
been exhausted on many podcasts adding
the how do you hear about us filled or
failing that when you actually get on a
demo call or a discovery call just
saying look how did you stumble upon our
brand what was the journey you took to
chatting to me today and often that i
think there's some interesting com some
interesting thoughts
yeah and i think that the discussion has
been a little bit uh
been a little it's it's often comes
across a little bit too black and white
it's not kind of
just because people can self-report it's
not that you can't do like
you know measurable stuff i think you
should look at it as a like as a
supplement to each other
like
you know
the quant quantifiable measurements have
a certain advantage over the
not so quantifiable stuff like you know
the self-reported answer
and one thing i will say is that we we
did do a test because we also listen to
this you should try to you know
do some self-reported attribution and we
we did a test on our website and you can
find the you can find the case on our
blog but we had like a self-reported
field uh where did you hear about us on
our website for a hundred demo calls
booked
and if i think but the first lesson that
i found was that a good self-reported
where did you hear about us
answer is a bit of a unicorn
i think less than ten percent what it
was of a quality that that it was
directional at all
um so
first of all it doesn't give you a lot
of data about what's going on the next
thing is that it's very vague you know
if somebody feels in i heard you about
you on google okay great or i heard
about you on linkedin
but was that an ad campaign was it a
search yet was it linked in that uh
which podcast was it which topic did you
like etc
um
for us that was a very weak uh
it didn't change our opinion about
anything and i think when you do
analysis you do it for for you to change
opinions on what you should be doing and
not be doing
yeah yeah i think
from my from our experience as well
because we added it like i don't know
six seven months ago to our website
forms how did you hear about us but we
get much the same but i think that's
because we're probably similar in the
fact that we're very much multi-channels
we're doing paid ads we're doing a lot
of seo we're doing a lot on linkedin
we're doing the podcast we're doing an
email list
so we'd get answers like how did you
hear about us google internet things
like that or linkedin yeah
they weren't very detailed so i'd quite
often go into sales calls and just ask
the question again like what was the
route that you took to finding us today
and then you get the detailed insights
that you could log into crm and then
really start making some measurements of
what's having an impact
i think
the point is that you should not
radically be blinded just trusting one
thing you need to kind of supplement
your understanding of the situation you
know self-reported quantifiable stuff
your gut feeling
common sense
not either or either or you can always
kind of make up your own conclusions and
if you're in doubt ask your colleagues
i've arrived at this conclusion because
xyz is that is that a meaningful
conclusion that i've arrived at
yeah i like that talking to your peers
getting their thoughts and feedback cool
um
stefan good chat anything to it to wrap
things up with in terms of connecting
marketing activity to revenue any final
points
no i think i normally talk about like a
a ladder of three so
start coming up with your own narrative
of why are we doing these things
which means like explaining we do this
activity produce this kind of revenue
then test that narrative up against your
peers maybe your network
and then thirdly make sure you bring you
do track data and
do come up with the numbers that you can
then show for why we should either
continue to do these things that we're
doing or we should stop doing the things
that we're doing
good man and with that said thanks very
much go on the show please do tell us
more about how everyone tuning in can
learn more about dream data and if they
want to connect with your good self
yeah i'm pretty active on linkedin so
people you can just connect with me
there and happy to reply any kind of
questions that that you might have um
if you're in b2b
then do check out greenlittle.io to to
see our website about how we can help
you connect your marketing spend to
revenue nice one sir i'll put all of
those links over in the show notes
businessgrowth.marketing and with that
thanks
enjoy the chat
thank you so have a nice day
no worries and as always if you enjoyed
today's episode why not leave us a quick
review on the audio podcast or if you're
on youtube or click subscribe and we'll
catch you on the next one for more
actionable no bs marketing tips to grow
your business and grow your revenue
cheers tuning in